Explain loss function and optimization (#352)
carpentries-incubator/deep-learning-intro: episodes/3-monitor-the-model.Rmd

In practice, in each learning step we only use a subset of the training data to compute the loss and the gradients.
This subset is called a 'batch', the number of samples in one batch is called the 'batch size'.

::: challenge

## Exercise: Gradient descent

Answer the following questions:

### 1. What is the goal of optimization?

- A. To find the weights that maximize the loss function
- B. To find the weights that minimize the loss function

### 2. What happens in one gradient descent step?

- A. The weights are adjusted so that we move in the direction of the gradient, so up the slope of the loss function
- B. The weights are adjusted so that we move in the direction of the gradient, so down the slope of the loss function
- C. The weights are adjusted so that we move in the direction of the negative gradient, so up the slope of the loss function
- D. The weights are adjusted so that we move in the direction of the negative gradient, so down the slope of the loss function

### 3. When the batch size is increased:
(multiple answers might apply)

- A. The number of samples in an epoch also increases
- B. The number of batches in an epoch goes down

> - C. The training progress is less jumpy, because more samples are consulted in each update step (one batch).

Reviewer: I think the statement should be:
```suggestion
- C. The training progress is morejumpy, because more samples are consulted in each update step (one batch).
```

This makes sense and also what it states in the solution

Author: Well spotted! Thanks :)
